Dear Members of the NYU Abu Dhabi Community,
As we close out this extraordinary semester, I’d like to underscore again how fast and how admirably our community has responded to the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic. Our faculty and staff answered the call to enable students to finish their courses and for many to remain on campus when borders closed. Whether on or off campus, our students demonstrated amazing resilience and patience as the severity of the pandemic required constant adaptation. Core research functions were maintained while many of our scientists and scholars directed new inquiries at COVID-19. Our public offerings in the arts and ideas went online, and developed a robust worldwide audience. None of that would have been possible without our Health Center, which kept us informed and safe, or without our contracted colleagues, who implemented new procedures for public safety, sanitation, and food provision.
Most importantly, we stayed together as a community even while all of us tried to stay connected with loved ones around the world. I want to thank each of you for your care and your efforts to make the best of a very trying situation. I hope that you and your families are well.
The central question on our minds now is what the next academic year will look like for NYU Abu Dhabi. Early in April, I convened an Academic Year Planning Taskforce to develop rigorous and safe scenarios for academic continuity this year and next. This group has done extraordinary work planning for every eventuality in uncertain times. They have done so always keeping in mind the health and safety of our community, the academic progress of our students, the research interests of our faculty, and the connectedness of our community. I want to thank them for their tireless dedication to this task. 
Planning Considerations for Academic Year 2020-21
In imagining the fall semester, we are taking a number of major factors into account. We are recognizing that the novel coronavirus is present around the world, and that effective therapies or vaccines will likely take months, if not years, to develop. We realize that significant travel restrictions will also continue to constrain our options. On the plus side, we now can look back on the semester to see what we have learned about online instruction, conducting research, and living on campus during the pandemic, and what we can improve upon. A hopeful and active area of exploration for our campus is the possibility of broadly monitoring community health through new testing capacities. 
Our aim is to allow for maximum flexibility and opportunity for learning and research while adhering to health and safety guidelines, making it possible for students to continue to learn and for research to be vigorous. And we wish for all of us to stay connected and enjoy the community spirit that we cherish about our campus. 
Remote Plus - What the Fall Could Look Like
Given all of these considerations, we are planning for a “Remote Plus” fall semester. We anticipate that most courses will be offered online and that our campus will not have as many students, faculty, and staff on campus as normal.
Nevertheless, as Abu Dhabi is home for us and as we would rather be together than apart, I’ve asked our planning teams to prepare for a range of scenarios that would gradually increase the number of students, faculty, and staff on campus - only if health and travel considerations permit. Subject to safety protocols, we hope to accomodate more in-person activity on campus than we have had this spring. We have the benefit of time to plan improvements over what we were able to do without much notice this past semester. 
Our academic, campus life, and operational teams are exploring what this could look like, including increased access to the library, faculty offices, research labs, studio spaces, exercise facilities, and dining options. It may be possible to expand the use of studios and labs for Capstones. Synchronous aspects of our online courses may be improved as we are setting up our classrooms to enhance delivery mechanisms. At the same time, if students have to take classes from different time zones, asynchronous learning may be supported by enhanced library or lab simulation services. Some in-person lab and studio courses, or components of courses, may need to be deferred until later in the year.
Academic Calendar
To ensure maximum academic continuity and flexibility, we will make it possible for students to spread courses over three terms - the fall and spring semesters and a seven-week summer term that will offer more courses than usual. This revised schedule will be broadly aligned with the academic calendar of NYU’s campuses in New York and Shanghai as well as the global NYU sites. 
To make a robust three-term calendar work for all campuses, and cognizant that ongoing travel restrictions would greatly affect our usual J-Term schedule, we will not have J-Term courses in January 2021. Select J-Term courses will be offered in the summer of 2021.
The calendar alignment across NYU will enable students to keep their educational journeys on track, and would enable NYUAD students to avail themselves of possible study abroad opportunities in the spring and summer semesters.
Our aim is to bring the full student, faculty, and staff population back to resume full in-person operations in spring 2021. Throughout the fall, we will assess what is possible and what is safe.
Leveraging our Global Network
Throughout the coming months, we will look to tap into NYU’s global infrastructure, and explore opportunities for students to engage with global sites that may be agreeable to their locations. At the same time, we will explore options to support UAE-based and regional NYU New York and NYU Shanghai students in our offerings where feasible. Our goal is to align our approach as well as possible with both NYUNY and NYUSH, while recognizing that our campuses face different local circumstances and public health situations, and that our community is uniquely international.
Community Feedback 
As we proceed with planning for the fall, we are seeking your feedback. The Academic Year Planning Taskforce is currently developing surveys designed to collect your insights, and we hope to be able to share those next week. Your responses to these surveys will help us to continue to frame the possibilities for fall and beyond, and to determine what is feasible and what our community is comfortable with. 
These plans are preliminary and are meant to indicate the approaches that we will pursue for the coming academic year. For returning students, an initial set of Frequently Asked Questions is answered on the student portal, and we will continue to offer clarification as we proceed with our detailed planning and receive community responses to the surveys. We will share more specific information about our preparations and how they pertain to returning students, first-year students, faculty, and staff next month.
Though we strive for a return to new forms of normalcy, COVID-19 is now a part of all of our lives. The virus will continue to have an impact on the world and on our community well into the next academic year. We will need to employ every tool we have to manage this challenge with optimal caution and care for all members of our community, and with the resourcefulness and creativity that have marked NYUAD from the beginning.
I know that all of us hold very dear NYUAD’s educational model of interpersonal and place-based learning. Any change to it is hard, even if it is temporary. I am also aware that we may not be able to answer all of the questions that you have right now, but we are committed to keeping you informed on a regular basis. 
As we head into our second decade, we do so with renewed strength and fortitude. After what we have gone through together this spring, I have great confidence in our ability to adapt and to advance our academic and research goals while safeguarding the health and safety of our community. 
